*pct* `<COMMAND> [ARGS] [OPTIONS]`

*pct config* `<vmid>`

Get container configuration.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




*pct console* `<vmid>`

Launch a console for the specified container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




*pct create* `<vmid> <ostemplate>` `[OPTIONS]`

Create or restore a container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<ostemplate>` `string` ::

The OS template or backup file.

`-arch` `(amd64 | i386)` (default=`amd64`)::

OS architecture type.

`-cmode` `(console | shell | tty)` (default=`tty`)::

Console mode. By default, the console command tries to open a connection to
one of the available tty devices. By setting cmode to 'console' it tries to
attach to /dev/console instead. If you set cmode to 'shell', it simply
invokes a shell inside the container (no login).

`-console` `boolean` (default=`1`)::

Attach a console device (/dev/console) to the container.

`-cpulimit` `number (0 - 128)` (default=`0`)::

Limit of CPU usage. Note if the computer has 2 CPUs, it has total of '2'
CPU time. Value '0' indicates no CPU limit.

`-cpuunits` `integer (0 - 500000)` (default=`1024`)::

CPU weight for a VM. Argument is used in the kernel fair scheduler. The
larger the number is, the more CPU time this VM gets. Number is relative to
weights of all the other running VMs.

NOTE: You can disable fair-scheduler configuration by setting this to 0.

`-description` `string` ::

Container description. Only used on the configuration web interface.

`-force` `boolean` ::

Allow to overwrite existing container.

`-hostname` `string` ::

Set a host name for the container.

`-ignore-unpack-errors` `boolean` ::

Ignore errors when extracting the template.

`-lock` `(backup | migrate | rollback | snapshot)` ::

Lock/unlock the VM.

`-memory` `integer (16 - N)` (default=`512`)::

Amount of RAM for the VM in MB.

`-mp[n]` `[volume=]<volume> [,backup=<[1|0]>] [,mp=<Path>] [,size=<DiskSize>]` ::

Use volume as container mount point (experimental feature).

`-nameserver` `string` ::

Sets DNS server IP address for a container. Create will automatically use
the setting from the host if you neither set searchdomain or nameserver.

`-net[n]` `name=<String> [,bridge=<vmbr<Number>>] [,firewall=<[1|0]>] [,gw=<GatewayIPv4>] [,gw6=<GatewayIPv6>] [,hwaddr=<MAC>] [,ip=<IPv4Format/CIDR>] [,ip6=<IPv6Format/CIDR>] [,mtu=<Number>] [,tag=<VlanNo>]` ::

Specifies network interfaces for the container.

`-onboot` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Specifies whether a VM will be started during system bootup.

`-ostype` `(archlinux | centos | debian | fedora | opensuse | ubuntu)` ::

OS type. Corresponds to lxc setup scripts in
/usr/share/lxc/config/<ostype>.common.conf.

`-password` `string` ::

Sets root password inside container.

`-pool` `string` ::

Add the VM to the specified pool.

`-protection` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Sets the protection flag of the container. This will prevent the remove
operation. This will prevent the CT or CT's disk remove/update operation.

`-restore` `boolean` ::

Mark this as restore task.

`-rootfs` `[volume=]<volume> [,backup=<[1|0]>] [,size=<DiskSize>]` ::

Use volume as container root.

`-searchdomain` `string` ::

Sets DNS search domains for a container. Create will automatically use the
setting from the host if you neither set searchdomain or nameserver.

`-startup` `[[order=]\d+] [,up=\d+] [,down=\d+] ` ::

Startup and shutdown behavior. Order is a non-negative number defining the
general startup order. Shutdown in done with reverse ordering. Additionally
you can set the 'up' or 'down' delay in seconds, which specifies a delay to
wait before the next VM is started or stopped.

`-storage` `string` (default=`local`)::

Default Storage.

`-swap` `integer (0 - N)` (default=`512`)::

Amount of SWAP for the VM in MB.

`-template` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Enable/disable Template.

`-tty` `integer (0 - 6)` (default=`2`)::

Specify the number of tty available to the container

`-unprivileged` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Makes the container run as unprivileged user. (Should not be modified
manually.)

`-unused[n]` `string` ::

Reference to unused volumes.




*pct delsnapshot* `<vmid> <snapname>` `[OPTIONS]`

Delete a LXC snapshot.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<snapname>` `string` ::

The name of the snapshot.

`-force` `boolean` ::

For removal from config file, even if removing disk snapshots fails.




*pct destroy* `<vmid>`

Destroy the container (also delete all uses files).

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




*pct enter* `<vmid>`

Launch a shell for the specified container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.



*pct exec* `<vmid> [<extra-args>]`

Launch a command inside the specified container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<extra-args>` `array` ::

Extra arguments as array



*pct fsck* `<vmid>` `[OPTIONS]`

Run a filesystem check (fsck) on a container volume.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`-device` `(mp0 | mp1 | mp2 | mp3 | mp4 | mp5 | mp6 | mp7 | mp8 | mp9 | rootfs)` ::

A volume on which to run the filesystem check

`-force` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Force checking, even if the filesystem seems clean




*pct help* `[<cmd>]` `[OPTIONS]`

Get help about specified command.

`<cmd>` `string` ::

Command name

`-verbose` `boolean` ::

Verbose output format.




*pct list*

LXC container index (per node).




*pct listsnapshot* `<vmid>`

List all snapshots.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




*pct migrate* `<vmid> <target>` `[OPTIONS]`

Migrate the container to another node. Creates a new migration task.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<target>` `string` ::

Target node.

`-online` `boolean` ::

Use online/live migration.



*pct resize* `<vmid> <disk> <size>` `[OPTIONS]`

Resize a container mountpoint.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<disk>` `(mp0 | mp1 | mp2 | mp3 | mp4 | mp5 | mp6 | mp7 | mp8 | mp9 | rootfs)` ::

The disk you want to resize.

`<size>` `\+?\d+(\.\d+)?[KMGT]?` ::

The new size. With the '+' sign the value is added to the actual size of
the volume and without it, the value is taken as an absolute one. Shrinking
disk size is not supported.

`-digest` `string` ::

Prevent changes if current configuration file has different SHA1 digest.
This can be used to prevent concurrent modifications.



*pct restore* `<vmid> <ostemplate>` `[OPTIONS]`

Create or restore a container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<ostemplate>` `string` ::

The OS template or backup file.

`-arch` `(amd64 | i386)` (default=`amd64`)::

OS architecture type.

`-cmode` `(console | shell | tty)` (default=`tty`)::

Console mode. By default, the console command tries to open a connection to
one of the available tty devices. By setting cmode to 'console' it tries to
attach to /dev/console instead. If you set cmode to 'shell', it simply
invokes a shell inside the container (no login).

`-console` `boolean` (default=`1`)::

Attach a console device (/dev/console) to the container.

`-cpulimit` `number (0 - 128)` (default=`0`)::

Limit of CPU usage. Note if the computer has 2 CPUs, it has total of '2'
CPU time. Value '0' indicates no CPU limit.

`-cpuunits` `integer (0 - 500000)` (default=`1024`)::

CPU weight for a VM. Argument is used in the kernel fair scheduler. The
larger the number is, the more CPU time this VM gets. Number is relative to
weights of all the other running VMs.

NOTE: You can disable fair-scheduler configuration by setting this to 0.

`-description` `string` ::

Container description. Only used on the configuration web interface.

`-force` `boolean` ::

Allow to overwrite existing container.

`-hostname` `string` ::

Set a host name for the container.

`-ignore-unpack-errors` `boolean` ::

Ignore errors when extracting the template.

`-lock` `(backup | migrate | rollback | snapshot)` ::

Lock/unlock the VM.

`-memory` `integer (16 - N)` (default=`512`)::

Amount of RAM for the VM in MB.

`-mp[n]` `[volume=]<volume> [,backup=<[1|0]>] [,mp=<Path>] [,size=<DiskSize>]` ::

Use volume as container mount point (experimental feature).

`-nameserver` `string` ::

Sets DNS server IP address for a container. Create will automatically use
the setting from the host if you neither set searchdomain or nameserver.

`-net[n]` `name=<String> [,bridge=<vmbr<Number>>] [,firewall=<[1|0]>] [,gw=<GatewayIPv4>] [,gw6=<GatewayIPv6>] [,hwaddr=<MAC>] [,ip=<IPv4Format/CIDR>] [,ip6=<IPv6Format/CIDR>] [,mtu=<Number>] [,tag=<VlanNo>]` ::

Specifies network interfaces for the container.

`-onboot` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Specifies whether a VM will be started during system bootup.

`-ostype` `(archlinux | centos | debian | fedora | opensuse | ubuntu)` ::

OS type. Corresponds to lxc setup scripts in
/usr/share/lxc/config/<ostype>.common.conf.

`-password` `string` ::

Sets root password inside container.

`-pool` `string` ::

Add the VM to the specified pool.

`-protection` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Sets the protection flag of the container. This will prevent the remove
operation. This will prevent the CT or CT's disk remove/update operation.

`-rootfs` `[volume=]<volume> [,backup=<[1|0]>] [,size=<DiskSize>]` ::

Use volume as container root.

`-searchdomain` `string` ::

Sets DNS search domains for a container. Create will automatically use the
setting from the host if you neither set searchdomain or nameserver.

`-startup` `[[order=]\d+] [,up=\d+] [,down=\d+] ` ::

Startup and shutdown behavior. Order is a non-negative number defining the
general startup order. Shutdown in done with reverse ordering. Additionally
you can set the 'up' or 'down' delay in seconds, which specifies a delay to
wait before the next VM is started or stopped.

`-storage` `string` (default=`local`)::

Default Storage.

`-swap` `integer (0 - N)` (default=`512`)::

Amount of SWAP for the VM in MB.

`-template` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Enable/disable Template.

`-tty` `integer (0 - 6)` (default=`2`)::

Specify the number of tty available to the container

`-unprivileged` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Makes the container run as unprivileged user. (Should not be modified
manually.)

`-unused[n]` `string` ::

Reference to unused volumes.




*pct resume* `<vmid>`

Resume the container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




*pct rollback* `<vmid> <snapname>`

Rollback LXC state to specified snapshot.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<snapname>` `string` ::

The name of the snapshot.




*pct set* `<vmid>` `[OPTIONS]`

Set container options.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`-arch` `(amd64 | i386)` (default=`amd64`)::

OS architecture type.

`-cmode` `(console | shell | tty)` (default=`tty`)::

Console mode. By default, the console command tries to open a connection to
one of the available tty devices. By setting cmode to 'console' it tries to
attach to /dev/console instead. If you set cmode to 'shell', it simply
invokes a shell inside the container (no login).

`-console` `boolean` (default=`1`)::

Attach a console device (/dev/console) to the container.

`-cpulimit` `number (0 - 128)` (default=`0`)::

Limit of CPU usage. Note if the computer has 2 CPUs, it has total of '2'
CPU time. Value '0' indicates no CPU limit.

`-cpuunits` `integer (0 - 500000)` (default=`1024`)::

CPU weight for a VM. Argument is used in the kernel fair scheduler. The
larger the number is, the more CPU time this VM gets. Number is relative to
weights of all the other running VMs.

NOTE: You can disable fair-scheduler configuration by setting this to 0.

`-delete` `string` ::

A list of settings you want to delete.

`-description` `string` ::

Container description. Only used on the configuration web interface.

`-digest` `string` ::

Prevent changes if current configuration file has different SHA1 digest.
This can be used to prevent concurrent modifications.

`-hostname` `string` ::

Set a host name for the container.

`-lock` `(backup | migrate | rollback | snapshot)` ::

Lock/unlock the VM.

`-memory` `integer (16 - N)` (default=`512`)::

Amount of RAM for the VM in MB.

`-mp[n]` `[volume=]<volume> [,backup=<[1|0]>] [,mp=<Path>] [,size=<DiskSize>]` ::

Use volume as container mount point (experimental feature).

`-nameserver` `string` ::

Sets DNS server IP address for a container. Create will automatically use
the setting from the host if you neither set searchdomain or nameserver.

`-net[n]` `name=<String> [,bridge=<vmbr<Number>>] [,firewall=<[1|0]>] [,gw=<GatewayIPv4>] [,gw6=<GatewayIPv6>] [,hwaddr=<MAC>] [,ip=<IPv4Format/CIDR>] [,ip6=<IPv6Format/CIDR>] [,mtu=<Number>] [,tag=<VlanNo>]` ::

Specifies network interfaces for the container.

`-onboot` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Specifies whether a VM will be started during system bootup.

`-ostype` `(archlinux | centos | debian | fedora | opensuse | ubuntu)` ::

OS type. Corresponds to lxc setup scripts in
/usr/share/lxc/config/<ostype>.common.conf.

`-protection` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Sets the protection flag of the container. This will prevent the remove
operation. This will prevent the CT or CT's disk remove/update operation.

`-rootfs` `[volume=]<volume> [,backup=<[1|0]>] [,size=<DiskSize>]` ::

Use volume as container root.

`-searchdomain` `string` ::

Sets DNS search domains for a container. Create will automatically use the
setting from the host if you neither set searchdomain or nameserver.

`-startup` `[[order=]\d+] [,up=\d+] [,down=\d+] ` ::

Startup and shutdown behavior. Order is a non-negative number defining the
general startup order. Shutdown in done with reverse ordering. Additionally
you can set the 'up' or 'down' delay in seconds, which specifies a delay to
wait before the next VM is started or stopped.

`-swap` `integer (0 - N)` (default=`512`)::

Amount of SWAP for the VM in MB.

`-template` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Enable/disable Template.

`-tty` `integer (0 - 6)` (default=`2`)::

Specify the number of tty available to the container

`-unprivileged` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Makes the container run as unprivileged user. (Should not be modified
manually.)

`-unused[n]` `string` ::

Reference to unused volumes.




*pct shutdown* `<vmid>` `[OPTIONS]`

Shutdown the container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`-forceStop` `boolean` (default=`0`)::

Make sure the Container stops.

`-timeout` `integer (0 - N)` (default=`60`)::

Wait maximal timeout seconds.




*pct snapshot* `<vmid> <snapname>` `[OPTIONS]`

Snapshot a container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.

`<snapname>` `string` ::

The name of the snapshot.

`-description` `string` ::

A textual description or comment.




*pct start* `<vmid>`

Start the container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.



*pct stop* `<vmid>`

Stop the container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.



*pct suspend* `<vmid>`

Suspend the container.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




*pct template* `<vmid>`

Create a Template.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




*pct unlock* `<vmid>`

Unlock the VM.

`<vmid>` `integer (1 - N)` ::

The (unique) ID of the VM.




