Proxmox VE Documentation
========================
include::attributes.txt[]

What is this?
-------------

This is an experimental project, trying to generate high quality
documentation for http://www.proxmox.com[Proxmox VE]. We choose to use
http://www.methods.co.nz/asciidoc/[AsciiDoc] as base format.

One idea is to generate high quality manual pages, and assemble them
into a complete book, called link:pve-admin-guide.adoc[Proxmox VE
Administration Guide].  So we have one source, and generate several
documents from that. It is also possible to generate printable PDF
files, or ebook formats ('.ebup').

Common Macro definition in link:attributes.txt[]
------------------------------------------------

'asciidoc' allows us to define common macros, which can then be
referred to using `{macro}`. We try to use this mechanism to improve
consistency. For example, we defined a macro called `pve`, which
expands to "Proxmox VE". The plan is to add more such definitions for
terms which are used more than once.

NOTE: The github 'asciidoc' viewer does not expand those macros.

Autogenerated CLI Command Synopsis
----------------------------------

We generate the command line synopsis for all manual pages
automatically. We can do that, because we have a full declarative
definition of the {pve} API. I added those generated files
('*-synopsis.adoc') to the git repository, so that it is possible to
build the documentation without having a fully installed {pve}
development environment.

Copyright
---------

Copyright (C) 2016 Proxmox Server Solutions Gmbh

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A
copy of the license is included in the link:LICENSE[LICENSE] file.
